docs/src/manual.md, before:

# [Manual](@id Manual)

```@meta
DocTestSetup = quote
    using Gabs
end
```

Simply put, Gabs.jl is a package for creating and transforming Gaussian bosonic systems. This section discusses the "lower level" tools for simulating such phenomena, with
mathematical explanations when appropriate. For a comprehensive review of Gaussian
quantum information, see [weedbrook2012](@cite) or [wang2007](@cite).

## Gaussian States

The star of this package is the [`GaussianState`](@ref) type, which allows us to initialize
and manipulate a phase space description of an arbitrary Gaussian state.

```@docs; canonical = false
GaussianState
```

Functions to create instances of elementary Gaussian states are provided as part of the package API. 
Listed below are supported predefined Gaussian states:

- [`vacuumstate`](@ref)
- [`thermalstate`](@ref)
- [`coherentstate`](@ref)
- [`squeezedstate`](@ref)
- [`eprstate`](@ref)

Detailed discussions and mathematical descriptions for each of these states are given in the
[Gaussian Zoos](@ref) page.

If we were operating in the state (Fock) space, and wanted to describe multi-mode Gaussian states,
we would take the tensor product of multiple density operators. That method, however,
is quite computationally expensive and requires a finite truncation of the Fock basis. To create
such state vector simulations, we recommend using the [QuantumOptics.jl](https://github.com/qojulia/QuantumOptics.jl) library. For our purposes in the phase space, we can manually create multi-mode Gaussian systems with a direct sum, which can be called with either [`directsum`](@ref) or `⊕`, the direct sum symbol
which can be typed in the Julia REPL as `\oplus<TAB>`. Take the following example, where we
produce a 3-mode Gaussian state that consists of a coherent state, vacuumstate, and squeezed state:

```jldoctest
julia> coherentstate(-1.0) ⊕ vacuumstate() ⊕ squeezedstate(0.25, pi/4)
GaussianState
mean: 6-element Vector{Float64}:
 -1.4142135623730951
  0.0
  0.0
  0.0
  0.0
  0.0
covariance: 6×6 Matrix{Float64}:
 1.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0       0.0
 0.0  1.0  0.0  0.0  0.0       0.0
 0.0  0.0  1.0  0.0  0.0       0.0
 0.0  0.0  0.0  1.0  0.0       0.0
 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.379578  0.184235
 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.184235  0.748048
```

## Gaussian Operators

To transform Gaussian states into Gaussian states, we need Gaussian maps. There are various ways to construct Gaussian transformations, which we will discuss in this section.

### Gaussian Unitaries

Let's begin with the simplest Gaussian transformation, a unitary transformation, which can be created with the [`GaussianUnitary`](@ref) type:

```@docs; canonical = false
GaussianUnitary
```

This is a rather clean way to characterize a large group of Gaussian transformations on
an `N`-mode Gaussian bosonic system. As long as we have a displacement vector of size `2N` and symplectic matrix of size `2N x 2N`, we can create a Gaussian transformation. 

!!! note
    A matrix $\mathbf{S}$ of size $2N\times 2N$ is symplectic when it satisfies the following relation:

    
    $$\mathbf{S} \mathbf{\Omega} \mathbf{S}^{\text{T}} = \mathbf{\Omega}, \qquad \mathbf{\Omega} \equiv \bigoplus_{i=1}^{N} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & -1 \\ -1 & 0 \end{pmatrix}.$$

This library has a number of predefined Gaussian unitaries, which are listed below:

- [`displace`](@ref)
- [`squeeze`](@ref)
- [`twosqueeze`](@ref)
- [`phaseshift`](@ref)
- [`beamsplitter`](@ref)
  
Detailed discussions and mathematical descriptions for each of these unitaries are given in the [Gaussian Zoos](@ref) page.

### Gaussian Channels

Noisy bosonic channels are an important model for describing the interaction between a Gaussian state and its environment. Similar to Gaussian unitaries, Gaussian channels are linear bosonic channels that map Gaussian states to Gaussian states. Such objects can be created with the [`GaussianChannel`](@ref) type:

```@docs; canonical = false
GaussianChannel
```

Listed below are a list of predefined Gaussian channels supported by Gabs.jl:

- [`attenuator`](@ref)
- [`amplifier`](@ref)
  
!!! note
    When its noise matrix $\mathbf{N} = \mathbf{0}$ and transform operator $\mathbf{T}$ is a symplectic matrix, a Gaussian channel is a unitary operator. Any predefined Gaussian unitary
    method can be called with an additional noise matrix to create a [`GaussianChannel`](@ref) object. For instance, a noisy displacement operator can be called with [`displace`](@ref) as follows:

    ```jldoctest
    julia> noise = [1.0 -2.0; 4.0 -3.0];

    julia> displace(1.0-im, noise)
    GaussianChannel
    displacement: 2-element Vector{Float64}:
      1.4142135623730951
     -1.4142135623730951
    transform: 2×2 Matrix{Float64}:
     1.0  0.0
     0.0  1.0
    noise: 2×2 Matrix{Float64}:
     1.0  -2.0
     4.0  -3.0
    ```

Commit message:

direct sum change to tensor for clarity

docs/src/manual.md, after:

# [Manual](@id Manual)

```@meta
DocTestSetup = quote
    using Gabs
end
```

Simply put, Gabs.jl is a package for creating and transforming Gaussian bosonic systems. This section discusses the "lower level" tools for simulating such phenomena, with
mathematical explanations when appropriate. For a comprehensive review of Gaussian
quantum information, see [weedbrook2012](@cite) or [wang2007](@cite).

## Gaussian States

The star of this package is the [`GaussianState`](@ref) type, which allows us to initialize
and manipulate a phase space description of an arbitrary Gaussian state.

```@docs; canonical = false
GaussianState
```

Functions to create instances of elementary Gaussian states are provided as part of the package API. 
Listed below are supported predefined Gaussian states:

- [`vacuumstate`](@ref)
- [`thermalstate`](@ref)
- [`coherentstate`](@ref)
- [`squeezedstate`](@ref)
- [`eprstate`](@ref)

Detailed discussions and mathematical descriptions for each of these states are given in the
[Gaussian Zoos](@ref) page.

If we were operating in the state (Fock) space, and wanted to describe multi-mode Gaussian states,
we would take the tensor product of multiple density operators. That method, however,
is quite computationally expensive and requires a finite truncation of the Fock basis. To create
such state vector simulations, we recommend using the [QuantumOptics.jl](https://github.com/qojulia/QuantumOptics.jl) library. For our purposes in the phase space, we can manually create multi-mode Gaussian systems with a tensor product, which can be called with either [`tensor`](@ref) or `⊗`, the Kronecker product symbol
which can be typed in the Julia REPL as `\otimes<TAB>`. Take the following example, where we produce a 3-mode Gaussian state that consists of a coherent state, vacuumstate, and squeezed state:

```jldoctest
julia> coherentstate(-1.0) ⊗ vacuumstate() ⊗ squeezedstate(0.25, pi/4)
GaussianState
mean: 6-element Vector{Float64}:
 -1.4142135623730951
  0.0
  0.0
  0.0
  0.0
  0.0
covariance: 6×6 Matrix{Float64}:
 1.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0       0.0
 0.0  1.0  0.0  0.0  0.0       0.0
 0.0  0.0  1.0  0.0  0.0       0.0
 0.0  0.0  0.0  1.0  0.0       0.0
 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.379578  0.184235
 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.184235  0.748048
```

## Gaussian Operators

To transform Gaussian states into Gaussian states, we need Gaussian maps. There are various ways to construct Gaussian transformations, which we will discuss in this section.

### Gaussian Unitaries

Let's begin with the simplest Gaussian transformation, a unitary transformation, which can be created with the [`GaussianUnitary`](@ref) type:

```@docs; canonical = false
GaussianUnitary
```

This is a rather clean way to characterize a large group of Gaussian transformations on
an `N`-mode Gaussian bosonic system. As long as we have a displacement vector of size `2N` and symplectic matrix of size `2N x 2N`, we can create a Gaussian transformation. 

!!! note
    A matrix $\mathbf{S}$ of size $2N\times 2N$ is symplectic when it satisfies the following relation:

    
    $$\mathbf{S} \mathbf{\Omega} \mathbf{S}^{\text{T}} = \mathbf{\Omega}, \qquad \mathbf{\Omega} \equiv \bigoplus_{i=1}^{N} \begin{pmatrix} 0 & -1 \\ -1 & 0 \end{pmatrix}.$$

This library has a number of predefined Gaussian unitaries, which are listed below:

- [`displace`](@ref)
- [`squeeze`](@ref)
- [`twosqueeze`](@ref)
- [`phaseshift`](@ref)
- [`beamsplitter`](@ref)
  
Detailed discussions and mathematical descriptions for each of these unitaries are given in the [Gaussian Zoos](@ref) page.

### Gaussian Channels

Noisy bosonic channels are an important model for describing the interaction between a Gaussian state and its environment. Similar to Gaussian unitaries, Gaussian channels are linear bosonic channels that map Gaussian states to Gaussian states. Such objects can be created with the [`GaussianChannel`](@ref) type:

```@docs; canonical = false
GaussianChannel
```

Listed below are a list of predefined Gaussian channels supported by Gabs.jl:

- [`attenuator`](@ref)
- [`amplifier`](@ref)
  
!!! note
    When its noise matrix $\mathbf{N} = \mathbf{0}$ and transform operator $\mathbf{T}$ is a symplectic matrix, a Gaussian channel is a unitary operator. Any predefined Gaussian unitary
    method can be called with an additional noise matrix to create a [`GaussianChannel`](@ref) object. For instance, a noisy displacement operator can be called with [`displace`](@ref) as follows:

    ```jldoctest
    julia> noise = [1.0 -2.0; 4.0 -3.0];

    julia> displace(1.0-im, noise)
    GaussianChannel
    displacement: 2-element Vector{Float64}:
      1.4142135623730951
     -1.4142135623730951
    transform: 2×2 Matrix{Float64}:
     1.0  0.0
     0.0  1.0
    noise: 2×2 Matrix{Float64}:
     1.0  -2.0
     4.0  -3.0
    ```
